You need to divide your code base into three layers.
Let's face it, our code looks bad.
Like really bad.
It's not even that long, and it's already very messy.
The code is messy because we're mixing the presentation logic, business logic and data access logic
in a single layer.
You need to divide your code base into three layers.
And that's why in this lesson you will learn about the three layer architecture.
A three layer design implies refactoring your code base into three layers, one layer for presentation.
One for business logic.
And another for data access.
Here is an example of a three layer design.
A data store contains two grade objects.
The user wishes to view all grades so they make a get to request on the path slash grades.
A handler method that maps to the path slash grades receives the request.
The handler method needs to retrieve every grade from the data store.
Retrieving an object from the data store is a CRUD operation.
Crud is any operation that creates, retrieves updates or deletes data from a data store.
All CRUD operations should be inside the repository class.
The repository class is the data access layer.
The Controller class and repository class do not communicate directly.
The service class is the middleman between the two.
The service class is also the business logic layer because it contains every business related operation.
In this design, the controller calls upon the service class.
And the service class calls upon the repository class.
The repository class fetches the data and sends it all the way back to the controller.
After retrieving the data, you need to add that piece of data to the model because the model is what
populates your thin leaf templates.
Finally updates the view based on the data inside the model.
The Handler method responded the view.
And the controller's only concern is managing the model and presenting the view.
Together they make up the presentation layer.
Currently your code mixes presentation business and data logic in a single layer.
The controller should only be concerned with presentation, but right now it's doing everything we need
to refactor our code.
So to recap, you learned about the three layer architecture.
The controllers only concern is managing the model and presenting the view together.
All three of them make up the presentation layer.
The service class makes up the business logic layer because it contains every business related operation.
The service class is also the middleman between the controller and the repository.
Every CRUD operation on the data store should be inside the repository class.
The repository class makes up the data layer, and so we're going to refactor our code base into these
three layers to ensure clean and scalable code.